Book updates end may (#2629)
status-im/nim-beacon-chain: docs/the_nimbus_book/src/eth1.md

# Run an eth1 node

> > ⚠️ Warning: make sure you've copied the endpoint that starts with either `ws` or `wss` (websocket), and not `http` or `https`. Nimbus does not currently support `http` endpoints.

Reviewer: @zah I thought I saw something on https support being added, where is this on the release schedule?

Author: I think Eugene and Jankgo are working in parallel on features that will enable it? We had someone complain that this was unclear and resulted in a lot of time wasted, so best to make it explicit until then.

In order to process incoming validator deposits from the eth1 chain, you'll need to run an eth1 client in parallel to your eth2 client. 

Validators are responsible for including new deposits when they propose blocks. And an eth1 client is needed to ensure your validator performs this task correctly.

On this page we provide instructions for using Geth (however, any reputable eth1 client should do the trick).

> > **Note:** If you have a > 500GB SSD, and your [hardware](./hardware.md) can handle it, we strongly recommend running your own eth1 client. This will help ensure the network stays as decentralised as possible. If you can't however, the next best option is to set up an [infura endpoint](./infura-guide.md).

Reviewer: let's call them 3rd-party provider generally - there are other options and web services out there than infura that also provide the API - similar to the guide about eth1 clients, we can document more of them generally.

## Nimbus

> In parallel to `nimbus-eth2` we are working hard on our [our eth1 client](https://github.com/status-im/nimbus-eth1). While this is  very much a project in development (i.e. not yet ready for public consumption), you are welcome to experiment with it.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
In parallel to `nimbus-eth2` we are working hard on our [our execution client](https://github.com/status-im/nimbus-eth1). While this is a project in development (i.e. not yet ready for public consumption), we welcome you to experiment with with.
```
